---
layout: default
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

### About Me:

**skeleton9**@weibo/wechat/github/stackoverflow

Software Developer at Beijing, China


This site is for me to track my learning of the programming language `swift`
from Apple.

I used to be a web application developer, and is familiar with RoR, NodeJS,
Python, MySQL, etc. Just starting with the mobile industry :)

### About This Site:

- **Github Pages:**

This site is served on Github as
[Project Pages](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/#project-pages).

- Create a repository on github or using your existing repository
- Create a branch `gh-pages` for it
- Then you can host your static site on `gh-pages` branch.

There are other kinds pages as User Pages, and Organization Pages. See [help on
Github](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/).

- **Jekyll**

This site is build with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/). Which helps you to
transform plain text to static website. It is officially support by Github. See
https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/

Unfortunately, [Github do not allow Jekyll plugins](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/plugins/)
for security reasons. So I have added some rake tasks as workaround to make my
plugins works.

I write a plugin as `_plugins/tag_posts.rb`, which generates list of posts of
tags, so you can visit `/tags/code.html` to get all posts with the tag `code`.
To make it work, the rake command `build` will generate files in `_site` as
normal, and copy the `_site/tags/*` to `tags/*`, which will be copied back on
Github by Jekyll.

- **Useful Tips:**

`rake post title='your title'` to create a new post in `_posts`.
Accepted params are:
- title: e.g. title='new to swift'
- tags: e.g. tags='code,algorithm'
- date: e.g. date='2014-01-01'

`rake draft title='your title'` to create a new draf in `_drafs`. Drafts will
not appear on your posts list on Github.

`rake publish title='part of title'` will convert an existing draf to a post.
It will find the matched draf and ask you to select the right one.

`rake run` to run locally, including drafts, and you can preview your site at
`http://127.0.0.1:4000`

`rake build` to generate the site static files into `_site`, it will also copy
`_site/tags` to `tags` to make the `tag_posts` plugin work. Most of the time
you do not need to run this.

`rake commit m='your commit message'` to commit all your changes, which will
automatically run `rake build` for you, so files generated by your plugins will
be included.

`rake deploy [m='your message']` to push your changes to github. If you have
uncommitted changes, this will automatically commit for you. You can set commit
message by adding `m='your commit message'` part, otherwise it will use the
default commit message. It is safe if there is nothing to commit.

So the basic flow for you to write a post is:

- `rake post title='hello world'` to create a post with title "hello world"
- Then you find the file under `_posts` and edit it
- `rake run` to preview it locally at `http://127.0.0.1:4000`
- `rake deploy m='new post hello world'` to commit and push the changes to Github
